# Copy/content editing guidelines

Use these guidelines to help you edit content to follow our style.

::: info NOTE FOR COPY EDITORS

Any time you catch significant issues in an article or otherwise have concerns about a piece, you
should message the editing team manager, who can then direct your feedback to the appropriate
section editor.

:::

## Title

Titles and subheadings should be spelled and punctuated correctly.

## Punctuation

Punctuation should match the guidelines in the AP style guide. Common issues include mispunctuated
quotations, overuse of commas, use of contractions and misuse of semicolons and the em dash.

::: tip

AP style does not use Oxford commas.

:::

::: info NOTE

Section titles use an Oxford comma. For example, "Arts, Campus, & Culture" instead of "Arts, Campus
& Culture"

:::

## Grammar

Edit grammar based on the AP style guide. Common issues include comma splices, verb tense errors and
pronoun/antecedent mismatches.

## Spelling

Spelling should be accurate. For consistency, follow the spelling rules for American English. Some
words may have a variety of possible spellings. For these, check the AP style guide or the Oxford
English Dictionary for preferred spelling.

## Accuracy

Articles need to be accurate. This includes, but is not limited to, making sure students are
identified properly (for example, by ensuring that students’ names are spelled correctly) as well as
checking that Furman programs and offices are identified by their official names. Additionally, if
you think there is a factual error within an article, please comment on the article to point this
out and then message the editing team manager. Factual errors are rare, but it is very important
that we fix them when they do occur.

::: warning

If information is presented without a source (e.g. links or quotes), make a note for the writer to
add links or give context for the information source.

:::

## Ethical concerns

Ethical concerns are also rare, but they do occasionally pop up. If you think there is a potential
ethical problem regarding how a story is being handled, contact the editing team manager and explain
why you think there is an ethical issue.

## Language and word choice

Ensure that the language used is appropriate for journalistic writing. Although this is a student
paper, we want to keep things professional. Language and word choice issues include, but are not
limited to, profanity, emotionally-charged language and excessive use of filler words.

When you have a concern about the language or word choice used within an article, you should keep in
mind which section the article is written for, and what the purpose of that section is. For example,
an exception regarding emotionally-charged language can be made for Opinions articles and Diversity
Matters articles, in which some emotionally-charged language may be employed to help the student
make their argument or tell their story. Additionally, articles in the Arts, Campus, & Culture
section do not need to be as formal as articles in News should be. Please use your best judgment!

## Structure, clarity and cohesion

Ask yourself: Is the author's message clear? Do I understand what the main point of the article is?
Do the ideas in the article flow together well, or do they seem disconnected? If you ever feel bored
or lost when reading an article, it may be an issue with the overall structure of an article. Please
direct structural concerns to the editing team manager.

## Extraneous information

Articles should generally be 500-700 words long, although special articles such as “Deep Dive”
articles may occasionally be longer. Often, articles that are too long include more information than
necessary—if you think an article includes too much information or irrelevant information, you can
contact the editing team manager and suggest that the article should be shortened.

Similarly, articles that include quotations may occasionally include several very similar quotations
from multiple different people. If you think that an article includes too many quotations expressing
the same thought, you should again contact the editing team manager with this concern.

## Photos

Photos should be relevant to the article. If people are in a photo, a caption under the photo should
provide the names and years (if students) of everyone in the photo.

## Other issues

If you find a problem in an article which is not included in one of the above categories, leave a
comment on the article and contact the editing team manager so they can address the potential
problem with the appropriate section editor.
